========
AGS OedoSense - Making sense of oedometer test data in AGS files
Copyright (c) 2023, WEI JIAN ANG.
All rights reserved.
========

Open-source application developed in Python 3 and packaged into an executable via PyInstaller to: 
- Read oedometer test data in MS excel files (in AGS format)
- Check data format 
- Plot oedometer test data
- Calculate the preconsolidation pressure with three methods: 
        1. Casagrande method (1936) 
        2. Oikawa method (1987)
        3. Maximum Curvature method (Gregory et al., 2006) 
- Compare the calculated preconsolidation pressure against the recorded preconsolidation pressure (in AGS)

Instructions to use software (please refer to the step-by-step guide for more details):
1. Double-click the "AGS OedoSense".exe
2. Select the input folder containing the MS excel files (in AGS format)
3. Select the output folder that will store the results generated by the application 
4. Adjust the settings as necessary 
5. Check the data format
6. Generate graphs and calculate preconsolidation pressure


Features 
--------

* `GitHub <https://github.com/angwj1/ags-OedoSense>`_  
* Open source and free application: `BSD-2-Clause License <https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause>`_.


References
--------
- Casagrande, A. (1936) The determination of pre-consolidation load and its practical significance. In: 1st International Conference on Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, 22-26 June 1936. pp. 60–64.
- Gregory, A. S., Whalley, W. R., Watts, C. W., Bird, N. R. A., Hallett, P. D. and Whitmore, A. P. (2006) Calculation of the compression index and precompression stress from soil compression test data. Soil and Tillage Research. 89(1), 45–57. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.still.2005.06.012.
- Montoya-Araque, E. A., Aparicio-Ortube, A. J., Zapata-Medina, D. G. and Arboleda-Monsalve, L. G. (2022) An open-source application software to determine the preconsolidation pressure of soils in incremental loading oedometer testing: pySigmaP. SoftwareX. 17(1). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2022.100990.
- Oikawa, H. (1987) Compression curve of soft soils. Soils and Foundations. 27(3), 99 - 104. https://doi.org/10.3208/sandf1972.27.3_99.